three two one boom hello Colin welcome
back what's up man good to see you I
brought a book I wrote it I wrote this
book last time since I saw you last the
impossible first indeed indeed yeah
about my solo journey across Antarctica
and kind of diving deep through my whole
life I'm kind of what brought me there
and other expeditions and the ups and
downs of it all and you're coming back
from another crazy trip right I am
indeed what is that nonsense that you
did on a kayak what did you do so after
I got back from the impossible first the
Antarctica crossing right about time I
saw you last year I got a funny phone
call actually of all things creep or ask
me you know what's the next expedition
gonna be what are you gonna do and I
said you know I just walked 54 days by
myself across an article give me give me
a minute give me a minute to write relax
and I get a phone call via buddy of mine
from college connects me to this this
guy on this Icelandic guy I've never met
him before his name's fian Paul don't
know his story I do now he's an absolute
legend and he says hey man you were just
in Antarctica right and I was like yeah
and he's like I think we should go back
to Antarctica I was like all right well
what are you thinking he's like in a
rowboat I think we should row a boat
from the southern tip of South America
to the peninsula of Antarctica across
Drake Passage how far is that about 700
miles I see what that looks like a map
and I said please delete my phone 700
miles rowing the boat yes a Drake
Passage is known to be you know and
seafaring one of the most treacherous if
not the most treacherous kind of
passageway in the world you know you've
gotten the Atlantic and the Pacific and
the southern ocean kind of all
converging between the Antarctic
Peninsula and the southern tip of South
America so you got 40 foot swells you
got you know crazy waves icebergs as you
get close to Antarctica and the the
mission or the goal was to see if we
could there it is that's it the whole
area that whole area there from there to
there all the way down yet the main the
main Peninsula there so ultimately it
took us just less than two weeks to do
the entire row but it was a a long
journey and the planning from that phone
call all the way through to that year
but it was a it was a two-week or 12 12
day crossing so
in the two weeks you had to have two
weeks worth of food two weeks worth of
drinking water
both yes so well water actually we have
a desalinator so off of new off of solar
panels everything's you know solar
there's no engine no sail nothing like
that just completely human powered row
we have a portable desalinator yeah how
big is it it fits inside one of the tiny
looks so the boats tiny the boats like
20 25 feet long 3 guys rowing at a time
for 6 of us total in the team ultimately
you know barely anywhere to sleep in
this tiny little compartments like the
size of like you know sleeping in the
back of a you know hatchback of a Honda
Civic or something like that but but
yeah so you got this desalinator that's
basically kind of in one of the central
compartment so it's probably like I
don't know maybe two feet by two feet
square something like that and I mean
doesn't doesn't make a water real fast
you can make 10 liters of water and like
you know an hour too depending on this
house meant how hot so something is good
but it I mean gets it done yeah it gets
it done does it taste like whale dicks
it was weird as we got closer to
Antarctica I think it started messing up
because it got real salty like it wasn't
doing quite as good of a job the water
on Maron article was like 1 degree
Celsius so 33 Fahrenheit me practically
frozen cold water and I think that was
kind of starting to tweak out the system
but drinking salt water as we got closer
it was like it was still potable but it
was like this isn't working as well but
early on I mean it worked just fine like
it was pretty much you know cold cold
drinking water like bottled water yeah
exactly
but then does it only do it for a
certain amount of time does the filter
get filled up or anything it worked for
the entire 12 days that we were out
there those guys have gone on longer you
know rowing exhibitions across the
Pacific or the Atlantic or longer
stretches of ocean that you know you
works the entire time but it is one of
the things that breaks down so we had
extra spare parts fortunately we don't
have to use any of that but but ya know
it worked and then yeah of course we had
to bring food for the entire time as
well on there so that was you know a key
part of it how much food so there was
six of us like I said pretty much all
the compartments were full you know
there's a tiny little compartments we
basically ate two things so we we had
freeze-dried meals so like mountain
house freeze-dried meals we this little
Jetboil that we were kind of as crazy as
the waters like it's 40 you know a
40-foot wave
bouncing around on this trying to hold
in Jetboil to try to boil some water it
was pretty tough but some close calls
with that but we also had these bars so
last time I think we talked about last
time I was on here I had these kind of
custom nutrition bars that were made and
so that worked really well for me in the
Antarctica crossing we had done all this
kind of people explain that again like
how you made those made yeah so when I
was doing my own article crossing one of
the kind of challenges is basically can
you take enough food with you because
what I was doing was called unsupported
so no resupplies of food or fuel you
know crossing the landmass I'm a Nordica
54 days and so I wanted to get like the
most optimized nutrition and so I work
with this company called standard
process was all like a whole food
supplement company and they've got all
these sort of doctors food scientists
and this and I went in their lab for a
year and they did all this kind of
custom blood work on my body I'm trying
to figure out you know basically my
exact sort of physiology and they
created these bars based on all of the
research that they did that base were
these really high calorie bars because
there's the most high calories that I
needed to optimize space and they were
kind of they were all they're all
plant-based and ended up and then I know
there's what's in them again
you know coconut oil nuts seeds you know
sort of different phytonutrients in a
particular macronutrient blend that I
needed it was about 45% fat because I
needed the high fat about 40% protein
and then 15 math on that 15% Karp's and
so excuse me sorry I alternated the
protein carb quotient there but but yeah
it worked really well for that and so
when I was doing the row I called up
standard process again they've been
amazing partner of mine they were like
we're like hey I'm doing this row those
bars work so a good last time I'm like I
just said with you know trying to boil
water and you know all this stuff is
really challenging on the rowboat the
best would be to have this really kind
of high optimized nutrition that we
could use again for the project like
this but the parameters are different
you know the humidity is different the
temperature is different there's six of
us now there's not just one of me you
know can we optimize it for that so they
kind of made a specialty blend of the
bars again
but they've called the column bars like
probably come up with a better name but
they're not for sale we talked about
doing that so maybe in the future but
you can you can see online on their
website like all the different
supplements and stuff that went into it
so you can kind of buy the component
parts but yeah one day we might wait
but they've been kind of just custom for
these two projects they worked really
really well particularly in the rowing
so I mean they worked amazing in the
Antarctic crossing as well but in the
rowing it was 90 minutes of rowing on 90
minutes of rowing off continuous 24
hours a day so there's we're kind of in
two sets of three six of us total three
people rowing three people resting and
in that 90 minutes that you're off
that's also when you got a you know eat
drink sleep it's our only time to rest
basically and so as much time as you can
kind of optimize eating and stuff meant
more sleeping and so to have these bars
get done with a 90-minute rowing shift
be able to eat you know a thousand
calorie bar highest you know quality
nutrition in your body
I mean standard process nailed it again
it was amazing to you know have these
bars and have it work really well for
all of us to kind of optimize not just
the food but also the efficiency of
sleep because the sleep got crazy out
there like you can imagine yeah
so you're basically sleeping every 90
minutes for one hour or so yeah exactly
ish like if you can get it and like when
once the swells start cranking up but
you're in this tiny compartment like I
don't forget pulp a picture of the boat
for a visual or some of my Instagram not
covered like really not covered at all
like so well there's covered in the tiny
compartment so the rowing parts not
covered at all so when you're rowing
waves are splashing up like over top of
you I mean you're getting completely
soaked like you're getting you know
complete suck the entire time in the
entire compartment you know it's like
it's like lower than this table like
you'd be like kind of crouched down like
in there yeah this is the rowboat right
here so that's us so that's the floor is
that where all the food is stored
underneath yeah underneath there's
compartments you can see that tiny
little kind of compartment on either
side one smaller ones bigger than that's
where you guys would sleep that's what
we'd sleep well the bigger one has a
wave just like to believe that there's
12 feet three no six people
excuse one six people yeah but still see
you got you know three people in the
three people rowing and three people in
that compartment singing in town I think
if you kind of scroll up to the top
maybe there's one of just it shows like
the whole boat or like what it looks
like maybe there there's a kind of a
shot of it so yeah so you can see in
there like the back little compartment
that's where I was and I was alternating
with this guy fian who I mentioned the
Icelandic guy who was the captain the
boat and really experienced ocean rower
and we alternated inside this little
cabin and then the other four guys they
alternated two people because that one's
a
little bit bigger in the front that's
the bow cabin in the front but they're
like you're like head to toe in there or
you're crouched into a little ball it's
not it's not glamorous at all did you
know these guys are all before you did
this so not really
not really yeah it was a deep dive in
the team and after doing something solo
I was pretty excited to do something you
know as a team and doing something in a
completely you know exploring a
completely different kind of avenue of
exploration in the ocean something I had
never done before and I had actually not
only do I not know these guys a couple
of moments at college with but we like
really loosely knew each other like I
kind of like maybe like I recognized
their face a little bit but it didn't we
weren't like good friends living like
that three of them I'd never met my
entire life and I had also have never
rode a boat in my life ever before and
so when fian he called me up and told me
about the project he's one of the most
world's most renowned ocean rowers he's
got you know 30 world records or
something like that
complete legend he's rode boats across
every single ocean this was like the
kind of the last you know big ocean that
he'd never crossed no one you know no
one ever done it just like this before
and so he kind of said hey I wanted this
idea but the logistics are super
complicated like going Antarctica is all
this sort of like treaties that you need
all his paperwork getting a boat down to
South America importing it through the
Panama Canal extent I mean it's like a
tough thing and he'd been like kind of
thinking about it for a year or so and
he said like hey I've seen you pull off
some big projects together can we kind
of team up and I know you know your team
has got really good at figuring out
these logistics would you be interested
and I'd actually looked at ocean rowing
a couple years ago was something that I
was wanted to do one day and so it's
kind of a after I kind of got that first
phone call like I said like I'm like
dude I just got back from anarchic I
don't want to go back to tomorrow but
you know of course the curiosity had
sided we got the best of me and I called
him back up and I said hey let's do this
what are you thinking and kind of dove
into it from there kind of my my team
kind of wrapped their arms around the
sort of like logistic and building out
the project and he was definitely the
visionary of something he dreamed up and
it was super cool to team up with him
after doing something alone now this
thing that you did when you walked
across Antarctica
very impressive incredible but I'm sure
you've seen the National Geographic
article gory about you and they said
that there was another man from was it
Norway that had done it already
yes wasn't the first time someone had
gone across America yeah he had gone
actually a further distance yeah so
something I've been talking about super
openly including in my book which is a
Nazi article you know it's a little bit
unfortunate I actually just published a
16 page letter asking NatGeo to retract
the entire article
the reason 16 pages is unfortunately the
entire article they wrote is just so
riddled with inaccuracies and kind of
misrepresentations and omissions that
you know we had to kind of ask them say
hey look you know he kind of got this
wrong I was never properly interviewed
for it but one of the things you're
talking about this guy bore Cowan this
Norwegian guy absolute freaking legend
so what this guy did
in 1996 oh no 20-some years before that
I attempted my crossing is he crossed
Antarctica from the edge of the
coastline crossed the Ice Shelf all the
way across the landmass across the other
ice shelf roughly 1,800 miles and what
he used to propel himself was he used a
kite for a good portion of the time and
it's an absolute extraordinary project
and what's really weird about sort of
this National Geographic article a
number of senses is one of the premises
of it was saying you know Collin never
talked about poor Gosselin like he never
talked about him in his book he never
mentioned in he never this and in my
book what's really bizarre and why we're
asking for a retraction because it's
just really an ineffectual was that you
know Here I am on page 49 of my book
literally it says the Norwegian
adventurer borghi Allen in many ways
defined the terrain of astonishing
modern Antarctic feats becoming the
first person across Antarctica
solo when you traveled 1,800 miles in 63
days from 1996-97 not only did he cross
the entire land mass of Antarctica but
he also crossed the full Ron and Ross
Ice Shelf from the ocean's edge
allisyn's expedition has deeply inspired
me and was unsupported and he hauled all
of his food and fuels with no resupplies
so as weird as like the journalists like
wrote this article but didn't read my
book that's not and I had done I don't
know a lot of there's a lot of
speculation I did this big project in
the film project around the Rose with
discovery I don't know if Nat Geo is
coming at discovery whatever but it's
really bizarre we could talk about all
the different kind of fine points of
that but the big distinction and like
I'll say it I've said it shout it from
the route
rooftops but I'll say it here again
Borga Allen is absolutely incredible
like I am in awe of the guy what he did
in 96 is phenomenal that's why I write
about it in my book that's why I've
written about it in my social the day
after I finished my crossing I wrote
about it on there as well and I said wow
so many people have inspired me I'm
standing on the shoulders of giants the
only way I was able to do this but this
says impossible first right so he did it
first right so the difference is is
there's kind of two really specific
distinctions in the world of polar
travel there's unsupported which means
not using not using got getting sorry
not getting resupply with food or fuel
like I was talking about with the food
and then there's unassisted which means
not using anything to propel you other
than your own body so that's called
human powered alone
so what he did is considered assisted in
that he used a kite but he was able to
go twice the distance of me which is
amazing so he often did he use the kite
because what I had read that he had only
used the kite and a few instances where
the wind was right so that's another one
of the things that the National
Geographic article unfortunately got
wrong and my 16 page letter that anyone
can read it's on my website Collin
abrade comm slash blog letter to NatGeo
or its link to my Instagram it's not
like a he-said he-said thing where I'm
like oh hey this got wrong it's just
actually a really kind of documented and
source document that has links to
everything and one of the links it shows
is actually his entire kind of project
afterwards in the aftermath of him
talking about including talking about
with perawang which was the one of his
sponsors the guys actually built and
manufactured the kite and they're
talking about how he used it for about
at least a third of his journey six 600
or so miles as well as you know he was
able to use the kite going 125 miles in
a single day which is like I said it's
amazing it's really incredible what he
did in the time that he did it it's just
really kind of an apples and oranges
comparison when it comes to polar travel
and the distinctions of that he traveled
further but he used some assistance
yeah so there's basically these
different distinctions in the world of
polar travel and that's another one of
the things again I'm not sure how they
got this wrong I actually in the link on
the 16 page thing I showed the text
message when the journalist asked me
will tell me about these definitions of
supported and unassisted and I sent him
the link and there's these links it's a
kind of published thing on this website
called an article logistics and
expeditions the main sort of expedition
facilitator the person who like runs
logistics down there it's very clear
unsupported means no use of resupplies
unassisted means no use of kites or dogs
and so the thing that I did so low that
people I guess have gotten somewhat
confused about or thought at first was I
was the first person across the landmass
of Antarctica solo unsupported no
resupplies and unassisted no kites
wellbore Gosselin did is he was the
first person to cross Antarctica not
just the landmass but also the ice shelf
so there's frozen ocean on these ice
shelves so from the coast across the ice
shelf across the landmass and across the
other ice shelf and no one yet including
myself
has ever done a solo unsupported
unassisted crossing of both the landmass
and the ice shelves I hope someone does
it matter be amazing I had 375 pounds
sled and I almost ran out of food at the
end crossing the landmass and if you'd
need maybe a 600 pound sled or something
like that or maybe a more optimized food
solution that no one's thought of yet
but hasn't been done yet how big was
owling sled similar size of me so he was
out there for I think was out there for
63 days but roughly I was out there for
54 days so we were not out there a lot
difference in duration okay so the sled
really did make a big difference that if
he's going that much further than you
exactly exactly okay yeah so so one more
time you were out there how many days I
was out there 54 days and he was out
there 63 days okay that's not that
different right and so he like I said on
some of the days he talks about openly
that he went he does it in kilometers
but if you calculate back to miles like
125 miles in a 15 hour period of time
that's unfair about just walking pulling
a sled they're just two different things
it's like difference between sailing
across an ocean and rowing a boat across
the ocean why do you think National
Geographic got that wrong then because
the way they wrote it it was you know is
they made it look like you're just a
Fame whore and that you know there was a
bunch of other explorers and outdoors
people that were in support of the
that Auslan was the only one the first
one to do it they didn't make this
distinction and they actually made it
seem as if this the sled was an
ingenious solution but it seems like
that was a planned thing and that was an
engineered thing and that it wasn't
something that he built up on the fly
this was the method that they used to
help him get across the snow totally and
if like I said if you look in the pet
letter that I wrote it's got links to
the actually the manufacturer they just
kind of talked about it as being this
elegant solution it's like you put a
kite up randomly but it's like a fully
manufactured thing it's a legit kite and
like I said this is not me knocking on
that I actually think that project it's
one of the project that inspired me the
most to do it I did it is amazing it
sounds mean can we see what Island
desert is there any photograph of
al-saleem Skype I want to see what it
looks like yeah it's whenever someone
does something extraordinary look
there's no doubt just what you did 50
how many days again 54 days alone was
fucking crazy it's crazy and for anybody
to shit on that is nuts so you're the
first one that's ever done it just
pulling that thing and you showed us
what it was like last time you were here
totally and some of the areas where you
had to pull it it seems like an insane
physical undertaking totally I mean so
yeah it was uh it definitely tested me
to the edges of my potential there was
many times that it felt impossible I
think I'd we talked about it last time
but the second chapter of my book is
called frozen tears because on the first
hour trying to pull my sled 375 pounds
fully-loaded of food and fuel I started
crying like I literally started crying
the tears are freezing in my face is the
all-time pathetic feeling I mean it was
really really brutal and really
challenging and one of the things for
sure in the National Geographic article
they're not they're not disputing that I
did this there's not like they're saying
you didn't walk 932 miles by yourself
across Antarctica they kind of like
grudgingly gave you credit for doing
something really freaky yeah they also
didn't mention the difference between
the time it took you to travel that and
the time it took Ellen to travel a far
greater distance or that he used that
kite to go more than a hundred miles in
a day yeah those are pretty big
important things totally and I think
that yeah hopefully you can pull up a
picture of the Iceland cut with the kite
it's it's LinkedIn they're finding his
specifically eye finding kites yeah yeah
yeah we'll find it in a second but you
know it's like I said it's unfortunate
thing you know I wrote this letter the
editor of National Geographic actually
responded said they're reviewing it you
know I think they're gonna hopefully do
the right thing the facts are pretty
clear on this world we could pressure
them but yeah okay yeah that's a big
difference that's a big-ass fucking kite
yeah I'm sure that has a lot of power
behind it too and I bet that really
helped him totally and if you can ski
with those things like the fact that
he's got skis on and he's getting pulled
by that kite I mean you're gliding yeah
you're not propelling yourself they're
both really cool things are just that
Jamie go back to that look he doesn't
have poles in his hands no he's just
holding onto the kite being pulled along
by it so he's probably strapped to that
kite yeah it's like if you miss port
like a kite boarding on the water so
he's probably strapped at the waist he's
holding on to that that kite but it's
pulling him while he's on skis yes
whereas what you did was pull with
trekking poles yeah trekking poles and
you know cross-country skis with skins
but just to give me traction so I didn't
sink too deep in the snow but I'm just
walking basically just pulling it with
my own body fully he's not doing that
it's a different thing just sugar and
things I'm sure there was times we had
to walk right yeah yeah he man hauled
for parts of it as well like a
significant distance but a lot of it
when the wind was with him you know he
put up his kite and pulled along and in
fact that he was able to go more than
100 miles in a day makes me go wait a
minute what yeah come on that's a
different thing totally different thing
that's a different thing National
Geographic did not recognize that that
that's a different thing that he can go
on the snow pulling 300 pounds more than
a hundred miles at 100 - how many - 125
and one time in 19 hours fucking
ridiculous
yeah that's a totally different thing
completely completely National
Geographic Jesus Christ yeah I mean they
should they should have been really
clear about that if they were trying to
make it out like some elegant solution
that he occasionally use not big deal
but what he really did was a mate but
what he did was fucking amazing there's
no no doubt no doubt that
what we just saw on that image of him
getting pulled by that giant ass fucking
kite on skis strapped to this harness
with all the weight behind him also
being pulled by that giant ass kite
that's a different thing
124 miles in a day pulling 300-plus
pounds get the fuck out of here yeah
it's hard to walk 124 miles in the day
let alone nothing on your back
Zack bitter who holds the American world
record for the fastest 24 hours ever run
ran it full clip at 11 hours he ran a
hundred miles Wow so 124 miles in 15
minutes while dragging or said hundreds
of pound or 50 minutes I said 15 minutes
15 hours 124 miles while dragging
hundreds of pounds of gear all in 15
hours is insane
that's insane yes if Zack bitter can run
a hundred miles in 11 hours and break a
world record or a man so the world
record an American record American
record yeah that's a crazy record yeah a
hundred fucking miles in 11 hours it was
easy running and that guy did 124 with
hundreds of pounds of gear in a sled in
15 hours exactly that's a different
thing just two different things man
different things and so world record
correction American record first and
then he broke the world record his
latest attempt exactly there's a monster
yeah shout-out to Zack but him being
able to do that running is incredible
that guy being able to go further in
just four hours longer pulling hundreds
of pounds of gear come on National
Geographic there's just two different
things at different and it's not
unimpressive it's incredibly impressed
me there guy has fucking steel resolve
to be able to do that and get all the
way across the ice shelves and all that
shit that you had to do absolutely and I
mean the biggest thing for me is
unfortunately there was you know
portrayed in a certain way I don't know
if it wasn't fact checked or what that
but like for me the whole purpose of any
of this the whole purpose of writing the
book and sharing it with the world and
being on you know talking to people you
know via your podcast or whatever like
my whole goal is to inspire other
people to step outside of their comfort
zones do things in their life challenge
themselves like it's this is not about
me it's not about notches in the belt
I'd be a little bit about you you wrote
a book I like it I've you know have not
really know that surprises me I started
writing a book at one point in time but
I had I had a deal with a book publisher
and the notes were so brutal I gave him
the money back yeah they were like they
didn't like it they wanted me to write
essentially the way I write stand-up I
needed to be like setup punchline setup
punchline I was like this is not how you
write things guys like they wondered if
it without the intonation of the voice
and the yeah they actually wanted to
take my stand-up they offered to just
take my stand-up and transcribe it into
a book I said I'd never do that and
they're like with George Carlin did it I
go that's cuz he owed the fucking IRS a
billion dollars come on man George if
you ask George was a good idea betty was
hey you know ya know he needed money
George Carlin was like deep in the hole
with the IRS he did a lot of things I'm
sure he didn't want to do yeah but that
doesn't mean it's a good idea to write a
book that was well I'll tell you I have
walked across the land mass of America
by myself I've rode a boat I've done
some other crazy shit in my life but the
hardest thing I've ever done is for it
really was you know I'm proud I'm proud
of the outcome you know I really poured
my heart and soul into it but it was
challenge I'm in journalling since I was
a little kid like since I was 12 years
old so going back through all my
journals and thinking about you know
there's the Antarctica piece of this but
it's subtitles from fire to ice so I
talked about you know being burning this
fire in Thailand being told out never
walk again normally going through his
piece of my life but one of the things
that happened when I was in an article
which it was interesting to me maybe
you'll find it interesting is as I was
out there by myself in this empty white
landscape 24 hours a day light endless
white nothingness my mind started
filling in with all of these memories so
I deleted almost all my music I'm in
silence I'm a full solitude like if I
said to you hey Joe remember the day you
graduated from high school and like
something's gonna pop in your mind right
now we're gonna keep talking and you're
gonna move on from that but when I was
walking out there by myself but some of
them popped my head like hey Collin
remember that your first swim race when
you were a little kid and all of a
sudden like I'd be back there like I
could like dive in and I could see my
mom on the edge of the pool deck and
this you know the wind's blowing across
my face and I can see the kid next to me
and I can taste the chlorine in my mouth
I mean if visceral
Marie's like a lucid dream we're coming
back to me throughout for weeks and
weeks and weeks at a time so the book
itself it reads about Antarctica but it
intersperses the way my experience was
in Antarctica which was actually going
back in through my life and this kind of
tapestry of four visceral memories and
flashbacks of other expeditions and
childhood and the ups and downs in my
personal life and kind of all of these
things kind of conspiring into one but
it was it was wild to go deep into the
brain like that
I'm sure yeah we should probably point
out we've had a podcast before in this
podcast that we did before was right
after you got back from this journey in
Antarctica and you described the whole
thing in Thailand you'd strive getting
burned and how you never thought you're
gonna walk again and yeah all that stuff
so we should tell people so stop right
pause go back back there again
how would it upset you when the National
Geographic article came out like what
did you to see like well they just got
it wrong let me let me straighten them
out you know it's one of those things
that be curious to your perspective on
kind of media and stuff like this you've
been around you know doing type of stuff
like me more longer than me but it you
know it hurt my feelings obviously and I
was kind of just it was bizarre because
it was so factually inaccurate and
National Geographic is a you know a
magazine or an outlet that I've looked
up to throughout my entire life it's
just like a really beautiful you know
platform and so I was just surprised I
was surprised that I was never asked for
a proper long-form interview this I was
surprised that I was never contacted by
a proper fact checker there was just
some things that were just like weird
and out of place and you know I guess it
was a freelancer I again I don't know
the story but I guess if I had to guess
look there's very little in like
praising people there's a whole lot
taking people down yeah if they could
find that you did something that you did
something incorrect or you lied about
something or exaggerated about something
I mean they made you out to be a liar
yeah I mean I read it and I was like wow
like they're they're saying he's a liar
yeah they're saying how much of it is
fiction yeah literally said fiction but
how much of it could be fiction if you
fucking really did walk 54 goddamn days
I'm not saying article not only that the
kind of weird parts about it is not only
that but I also had a GPS on me the
entire time
it was completely transparent
ten minutes the entire journey were live
for to see the New York Times covered it
they had my GPS tracker up live the map
of my route is in the first page of my
book let alone online 24/7 there's been
hundreds of articles written about this
by outlets who have fact checked and
researched or whatever so for not you to
make all those claims it's like saying
like Collins somehow tricked every
person ever from every news outlet
that's covered this in fact checked it
and reported on it and his editors is a
book and there's some hacked his Jeep I
mean it's like a crazy conspiracy weird
like kind of because everyone how'd he
say his name Oakland Towson yeah that
Island had done it everybody knew that I
also had done it maybe they just didn't
understand the details of it so they
started complaining hey he didn't do it
first Allen did it first and this guy's
like I got a story so he goes to try to
go after you but then realize it's kind
of he kind of did it first but the other
guy did it well let's just say that the
kite was cool
alright had a cool kite but I mean he
did even weirder things like in the
first paragraph or second paragraph of
the entire article he takes a quote from
page 50 of my book and a quote from page
214 of my book and put some horses them
together as if they're a single
statement and I'm like they're about two
completely different things that I'm
talking about and you're like dude
that's what people do I don't want to
sell dirt you know or he says like Colin
made up this thing about no rescue zones
no one's ever written about the fact
that in a no car and he talks about me
getting picked up in Antarctica like I
can call an uber he literally says in
there uses somebody else to call he says
I mean getting picked up in Antarctica
is like calling an uber which is by
itself just really so that he says that
in the article which is just crazy it's
hilarious bitch try getting an uber in
the woods in Montana okay I'm like I'm
like uber and then the craziest thing
and again is so crazy my response to
this is just factual it's it's not you
know it's it's I just try to not be to
defense everything about it but it says
well the good news is this will reach
way more people in that article
yeah it's but I would say one last think
about it the irony of this is if you
google bore Goslin in 2018 right after
2019 right after I finished my crossing
he's interviewed about all this and in a
quote and I linked to this in might you
know my letter it him saying there are
parts of Antarctica but
large distributed zakat I was talking
about where rescue is impossible like he
the guy who's against me is also quoted
saying the other thing but then he says
it's like the whole thing is just you
know it's crazy man there's so much
money and shitting on someone yes that's
what it is I'm sure I'm sure
well I'm sure this guy who wrote that
articles probably a little bit of a
hater yeah you know probably saw you and
like the fuck this guy you know it's the
world we live in unfortunately I tried
it you know keep my head up like I said
I wrote this book to inspire other
people to step outside their comfort
zones do amazing work I got paid for it
as well yeah that is so wrong no you
definitely but the fact that they're
trying to diminish what you did and what
you really did do was walk by yourself
for 54 days through Antarctica and then
one of the things he was even saying
something about it was on a road yeah
and I'm like hey bitch why don't you
walk dragon 300 pounds on a road like
does that matter everything's covered in
snow and ice road is this yeah so
there's basically this 300 mile stretch
was the the last third of my part of my
journey which by the way was on my GPS
which by the way I talk about my book
which by the way I widely acknowledged
and it's called the South Pole Overland
Traverse and so the South Pole Station
the u.s. Miller started the u.s.
research station that's at the South
Pole was resupplied throughout the
summer season from the coast and they
drive this kind of a bunch of tractors
basically up this area called the
levirate glacier and it's not like a
paved road this is them driving over ice
and snow and filling in crevices along
the way etc and there's some tire tracks
and some flagging that are out there so
first of all I've traveled almost 600
miles without any of that and then as I
get there and we know this is part of it
and I've talked about widely with all
the polar experts all of the people that
make the classifications and unassisted
refer specifically to kites and dogs and
they're trying to make this claim that
the road somehow quote-unquote Eric big
air quotes road basically some rutted up
tracks in the snow you know I'm not a
paved road no there's not a paved road
out there and the thing is Antarctica so
brutal we showed some clips last time
you sitting at my tent and 50 60
mile-per-hour winds that it was
like you know when that blows over
imagine driving a tractor over snow and
then 50 60 mile an hour winds come in
what do you think happens it's blown
over immediately so I never saw these
tractors never saw these vehicles never
saw I saw some Flags of course I saw
some rutted tracks but I linked to it on
my letter it was really not much
difference in walking on flat ground no
not at all and still there's still this
is true either so there's still huge
bumps of snow and all a lot of the time
it was white I was completely whited out
I couldn't see five or ten feet in front
of me so it's not like I could a lot of
times these flags over every 100 400
meters it's not like I'd even see those
so it's just a shame and I've been very
transparent about the fact that I used
that route it was the safest route it
was the only route the logistic company
wanted to support and it felt completely
in the distinctions of what is known as
unassisted and he try it kind of makes
this claim about that's not true where
people are rethinking that and one of
the weird things is you're thinking
right so they're there now because of
some of this the polar community have
gotten together after my project so my
project squarely Falls in the
definitions as they were followed all of
the rules and all of this now now
they're sitting together and they're
saying you know maybe we should rewrite
some of these rules or make certain
definitions different which by the way
if they want to change rules that's
totally fine the problem is it would be
like this this is like what them calling
me serve like a liar or something would
be equivalent of this with a major
league baseball got together and said
you know what all games in baseball are
gonna be ten innings now instead of nine
innings and all of those guys over the
last hundred years that played 200
thousand games or whatever who played
nine innings they cheated they lied they
didn't play the full game like they you
know they choose like so you know
they're if they want to change whatever
distinctions are classification there's
stuff forward looking great and what
would the distinctions be that they
would change this you can't do it on a
row so I think they're trying to make it
finer grained which is like there would
be like a kite distinction there would
be a no supported distinction there
would be a distinction for using you
know partial of if there was a flagging
or this like you know Road which by the
way is not a road to be cleared snow and
ice road I don't I don't there's a there
might you know at no point in time was
it like flat ground ice and snow where a
tractor we might see like some wheels
and in fact Lou
who's the other guy who I was racing out
there in an article he wrote a whole
blog post about that's linked to in my
letter and you know of course he's he
did the exact same thing as me by the
way the exact same thing same
distinction and you know I finished a
couple days ahead of him but what he did
it was absolutely incredible is this
race and we talked a lot about it in the
book and ton of respect for that guy as
well it's a friend of mine and you know
he you know writes about this you know
quote unquote wrote of the South Pole
overland traverses it's actually known
and he's like it's rutted up tracks like
you couldn't even have the parts where I
saw tire tracks it's like actually worse
then because you don't slide across it
the snow is all run it up it's chunked
up it's actually like tripping you it's
like even worse being on broken ice
versus powder yeah so this journalist
and others other people who are saying
this this is not like they've like been
out there before I think you know it's a
it's an attractive thing to say part of
his journey was actually on a road like
oh fuck that there's a road in an
article yeah it sounds it's when you say
part of it was on a road it sounds like
like this there were oh Christ that's it
that's the road that ain't not really a
fucking Road man it's just flat snow
exactly and that would be like the best
case most the time its wind blowing
across it like that's on the perfect
conditions perfect sunny day look to the
left and look to the right but it
doesn't they make it different it's the
same it's the same yeah that's really
deceptive that they they wrote that yeah
that's really deceptive cuz they made it
seem like oh and then he gets to the
highway and he's just walking it's like
hey I put my thumb out like pick a book
bus and he still went 54 fucking days
across Antarctica and I know they
acknowledged that in a small way in the
article but they really like just that
just the description calling that a road
like that it means sort of technically a
road there's no fucking ground man it's
just all ice and snow yeah I don't see
the ground
exactly and like I said I was
transparent about that was my route
asked all the people there like yep
you're within the rules you're doing the
right thing no one's ever done this
before and then you know to him
everybody's a fucking hater
yeah that's the world with unfortunately
you know tell me that throw crabs in the
bucket none of them ever get out because
when they try to get out the other ones
grab them and drag them out yeah exactly
exactly a pile on top of each other you
look
get down here with me look I can't walk
54 days you can't either bitch onward
onward onward is nice but man it's
really disturbing have you thought about
suing them you know drop the hammer son
call the Jews yeah yeah good attorneys
you know is that racist to say I don't
think it is because they're positive
they're really good at it
some would some would say they're not
that it is racist or anti-semitic yeah
do you have a Jewish attorney I do not
have a Jewish I do you do yeah I'm sure
there's some Irish attorneys that are
awesome too that's a weird one right
like racism when it's positive like you
say black guys have big dicks just
saying they're awesome like you know
that's true that's a weird one like it's
not really racist just saying someone's
really just like Italians make really
good pizza is that racist I love pizza I
do too
sorry we got way off track so so put
this stuff aside have you have you
considered legal action or you you know
the like I said I published this 16 page
or this picking page document that's on
my website I sent it to the editor of
National Geographic they have
acknowledged that they've received it
and like I said it's been a holiday
weekend so they've had a few days to
have it and hopefully they do the right
thing you know it is you know ultimately
it's it's defaming it's totally painting
the wrong picture is it often said it
isn't their version is in print as well
as online or just online oh their
article is just online yeah I hope they
take it down yeah yeah but the problem
is then but if not then someone's
already seen it so then exactly then you
know people I mean people like writing
on my Instagram like you liar I fucking
hate you I hope you dot and you're like
whoa man like that you know and that
hurts man I'm Michael I'm a human being
like it hurts my failures to see that
particularly when it's about something
that's completely not sure like people
saying like I heard you took a fucking
uber out there and you like just walked
on this road and you're like like you
know yeah but you know that is the
problem with those kind of articles that
right there in a nutshell is that
especially people that sort of
peripherally look at them exactly you
don't really go through it extensively
an exam with this guy saying yeah so
hopefully doesn't come to lead
action hopefully they do the right thing
here they've reviewed the facts and we
can move on yeah happen so now you get
through this right you write your book
and you get in this this rowboat journey
had the rowboat Joan Journey been done
before so the rowboat before there's a
storied history of ocean rowing so ocean
rowing you know sure the Polynesians
yeah I mean it goes way back
but even at kind of as a sport and you
know maybe the polar community wants to
do this in more formally but there's
something called the ocean rowing
society that has you know the records of
different rows going back over time
there's this race across the Atlantic
that happens called the talisker ocean
Talisker whiskey ocean race across the
Atlantic from from the oars that go from
from the Canary Islands to the Caribbean
every winter that happened so ocean
rowing it means a subculture the small
subculture don't get me wrong but it
happens like it's a thing you know
there's there's boats there's races
there's competition buddy no one I have
yeah so Drake Passage had never been
rode fully and completely before there
was a guy who's fucking legend as well I
wish I wish she was still alive because
I'd love to sit down more than anything
with this guy his name's Ned Jillette a
true true like Explorer I mean actually
got killed on the late 90s I believe
when he was climbing in the Himalayas or
in Pakistan and he got shot by someone
who came through the camp out of the
holster it was super sad story but he's
done all of these projects you know
before social media and stuff like this
this guy was out there doing these
badass things and he made this boat
called the sea tomato and he took it
down to Chile to try to kind of do a
what was a kind of a hybrid row and sail
and so he has a sailing mast on there
he's got roars he's got four guys with
them they try it the first season they
actually can't even launch their bow off
of Cape Horn they wait a whole other
year and in the second year they
launched a seed tomato understand they
have to wait a year because the way that
I mean Drake Passage is not we'll get to
that but it is Norley bro like it is
like I mean people you know you say
going around the horn people say that in
sailing like Cape Horn is known to just
be like just treacherous brutal water as
the two oceans kind of collide and these
huge standing waves come up so a whole
season they sat down there with the
didn't even launch it then the next year
came back him and four guys how small
the window where you can make it across
so basically the best time of year to do
it would be December January because
that's the southern hemisphere summer
and so the temperature is a little bit
warmer you've got longer days we
purposefully did it over the summer so
or the summer solstice so December 21st
you know that'd be June 21st for us in
the northern hemisphere the longest day
of the year we still had night you know
a few days a few hours of darkness every
single night but we at least had the
longer days because once it gets dark
and there's waves coming at you from
every single direction I mean it is
fucking scary this is it this is a Drake
Passage obviously as seen from a bigger
boat than mine but you know fuck that
can I see what it was like in your boat
yeah video yeah if you pull up my insane
if you pull up my Instagram any people
die out there I mean it I don't know the
numbers but there's a plane crash happen
the day we were leaving in 38 people
died in a plane crash and Drake Passage
as we were about to depart on our
aerobic as a whole that's a whole other
whole other crazy story but but you know
there's definitely there's shipwrecks
out there there's boats that have gone
down there was a a cruise ship I think
that went down in mm I'm Drake Drake
Passage yeah ships I hope I don't get
that story completely wrong but I'm
pretty sure a big boat went down in the
last 10 years or so there's a cruise
ship doing there they go to in order to
see that they do that and they go to the
pins lemon arnica so actually there's
quite a few cruise ships yeah so here
here's me so it's actually fairly calm
sometimes so I mean some of the times if
you've got some swells but I mean you'll
see this next part so this is me in the
tiny little cabin means waves coming
over the crashing this so where's the
cabin and the we're close to us they're
closest to us this little cabin I was in
there was just one of us in there and
this is so this is us putting out
something called the sea anchor that's
when the waves got so big or the wind
and swell was against us so much that we
couldn't row anymore and it's like
throwing a parachute that basically like
kind of tries to hold you in place you
look at the house is it so it's like a
huge parachute basically it's in the
water and you put it in the water and it
fills with water and it holds the boat
into place I mean not very well even in
this if we had the volume up it's me
basically talking about how we're
getting pushed back in the wrong
direction but we can't even we don't
have the strength to row against it
anymore
I'm just getting hammered but thus far
did it push it back I think that time it
pushed us back like 15 or 20 miles whoa
yeah you lose 15 or 20 miles of progress
yeah and that one that was the longest
anchor but we were on it for 26 hours
and so what happens is like I said you
saw on the boat there's three people
rowing three people in the cabin sending
given time and the cabins are tiny when
you're even with the you know one person
in one side like I was - in the other
side like you're like smashed in there
like a sardine but then when you put the
sea anchor out no one's rowing anymore
and that you know open decking it's like
really dangerous to just be sitting out
there so we all try to get in the cabins
but like this Icelandic dude who's the
captain fian Paul I mean he's like
amazing ro you know six foot two broad
shoulders whatever all of a sudden the
two of us are jammed inside of like the
smallest little parts like two feet
around three feet wide by three feet
tall we're like spooning each other
we're wet we're cold we're in there for
26 hours that time like how did you guys
poop so if you look that's yeah that
this one shows kind of the wave the big
swell I'm the I'm the one in the back
there and I'm sitting right next to a
really fancy toilet a little something
called a five-gallon bucket the bucket
it's a yeah and then the fish can snack
on that but you know you obviously get
not only were we spooning under sea
anchor smashing these little things then
often times those are the other guys
near the compartment either three three
of them were inside the compartment at a
time and one would be sitting out and
taking shifts or they sometimes smashed
four in there but I mean they're
literally on top of each other so we got
close but then also obviously there's no
space on the deck so it's like hey man
just turn your head away I'm gonna be
you know pooping of basically a foot
away from you while you row in this
bucket like don't mind me these mountain
houses will create some horrible smells
ladybug houses while hunting they're
rough especially for me cuz I don't eat
a lot of carbs yeah it's just yeah it's
all you know yeah though they do taste
good yeah they're in the middle the
ocean I bet they're delicious
I loved him yeah yeah they're really
good that that in the bars I was happy
with what the eating was good but when
you're halfway out there was any point
time where you're like what the fuck is
wrong with me
why am i doing this yes 100% so one of
the things like you know people have
asked me was you know solar Antarctica
crossing harder in the row whatever and
it's like they're very different but one
of the things that was so rude about
this Antarctica and the crossing was was
a lot colder than the Drake Passage row
it was about average temperature when we
were out there was probably like in low
30s you know dipped below a few times
but the ocean temperature like I said 30
to 33 you know just above freezing
there's icebergs in the water and we're
getting close to it and you're just
getting splashed the entire time so from
like minute one hour one leaving Cape
Horn we are soaking wet and what kind of
equipment are you wearing what kind of
gear are you wearing that keeps you from
so really cold so we we started out in
just this cortex as as thick like saline
gore-tex basically and that worked
pretty well for the first few days but
one of the other cool innovations that
feel and thought of having done so much
ocean rowing is he was like dude the
only way this is going to work is if we
have some sort of dry suit it's just too
cold but you start looking at dry suits
and you're like you could never row you
couldn't be functional like wearing like
this like crazy tri suit right and so he
basically says he spends the year one of
the things that he did is he found this
like polish manufacturer and we all got
our bodies measured no 20s five six
different measurements and all this and
basically created these custom dry suits
that were a lot thinner than a typical
dry suit but kept us dry but also
allowed us to have the mobility on the
oars and it was really actually built
for the sitting position in the leg you
know the leg press and the arm motion
and all that of rowing so it was awesome
innovation and we got just I mean thank
God we had those because we were getting
soaked I mean we were getting so so so
soaked out there and in the 90 minutes
you would think like oh in the 90
minutes quote-unquote rest phase you
would get in there you know maybe change
clothes something like that no
absolutely not like the we had these
suits on we're soaking wet we'd get in
the cabin we were all sharing like one
sleeping bag like I had just one
sleeping bag that Fiona and I were
alternating it's soaking wet after the
first day there's just like it's
basically like if I showed you what it
looked like a last day you'd be like I
wouldn't sit in there for one minute let
alone like try to sleep there's like no
pillars like what like the brown water
on the bottom like inter just like you
know it's the smells from us living in
and out of there
for this I mean it was grimy and wet and
cold but these suits Sooners pretty well
the one thing that was great you know
obviously we were clipped in for safety
so we were clipped into basically these
ropes that you saw on the edge of there
so if you're gonna get knocked off the
boat hopefully we would you know be able
to clipped in or the boat itself
actually fully self right so if it rolls
over it hypothetically rolls back over
the top we had some close calls but we
never fully rolled it and I thank God
but we did test that but one of the
things about the suits is the suits
basically have like neoprene booties
it's all like one kind of one-piece like
you would have in a dry suit which was
awesome for keeping us you know safe and
dry but I didn't take the suit off for
the last six or seven days at all and so
when I finally took the suit off my feet
like you think about your fingers
getting like pruney maybe like you know
in a swimming pool for a couple hours or
hot tub or something like that like
imagine seven days of wet and cold and
sweat and like all the things like when
I took the suit off like I almost
through cuts it was just like gnarly
festering skin and like like skin was
ripping off of my feet like it was nasty
how long until you recover from that um
I don't know exactly know it's hard to
put the point on like oh I'm recovered
but definitely took a few weeks to just
kind of get everything back you know
that's the stability back in all of that
so yeah yeah it was uh it was
interesting for sure what are you gonna
do next
cuz I know you you're one of those dudes
you have to keep doing these things
once you've done two of these things
you're gonna keep doing these things
yeah I did a couple before that too but
I think last time your advice to me was
stop stop oh yeah but you didn't listen
you know look like I'm passionate about
these things it's is super fun I do them
because I like testing the edges of my
potential I like exploring different
places like I'd never like I said I'd
never rode a boat before and that kind
of take this project on and say you know
I've done expeditions before I've pushed
my body and you know deep in interesting
ways but one of my biggest curiosities
is certainly about the mind but you know
particularly like growth mindset can I
say like I'm not a rower
in the course of a year of training I'm
gonna train myself up get on a team with
some amazingly you know accomplished
water men and learn the skills required
to you know make this crossing and it
was cool to kind of prove that out this
year because I think that that really
applies across so many things and I'm
just a generally curious person and I
think I'll keep pushing myself and
pushing my body because that's one of
the things that I love to do but I think
that curiosity throughout my life is
going to be you know a lifelong path of
diving into sort of different things and
taking them on I think that to me one of
my biggest sadness is one of the things
I like to say to people was like you
know people come to a certain point in
that their life and they're like you
know I'm I'm a lawyer or I'm good at
math or I'm terrible at art or like I
could never do comedy because I'm not
the funny one or I'm like you know these
limiting beliefs inside of us it's like
I could be like dude I've never wrote
ever in my life I'm you know 34 years
old you know I've never wrote a book but
actually like but like doesn't mean I
can't learn now to row a boat that's
pretty straightforward yeah exactly how
hard could it be you know a little leg
action - what did you do to prepare for
physically so the physical the physical
prep was was pretty cool I don't know if
you remember from last time but I've
just coached his name's Mike McCaskill
and he's just this legendary guy he's uh
you know done 5,800 pull-ups in 24 hours
he's pulled a truck across Death Valley
oh yeah he's a total total legend and he
trained me up from America I mean I came
to him and I said hey look like I'm not
the most experienced polar explorer I
gotta pull this 375 pounds sled like
what do you think how can you train me
up and he came up with such cool
training methodologies for that like he
had one of the things he had me doing
for Antarctica was he had me you know I
was doing planks of my hands in ice
buckets and you know as my heart rates
getting jacked up he's having me hold
that and all of a sudden he's like
alright get out and I do in a wall sit
but now my feet are in the ice buckets
and he puts a weight plate on top of my
legs and he's like okay and then he
hands me these Legos and he's like
solved these Lego problems and until you
don't solve this Lego and build this
little like you know aircraft little
Lego man or whatever you know you can't
get your feet out of the ice bucket like
what the hell was going on but he's like
look you're gonna be in Antarctica your
life is going to depend on Utah you know
securing your tent right or
tying down the ropes properly or this
and that the other thing you're going to
be cold your hands are gonna be frozen
you're gonna be tired but you're gonna
need your mind your dexterity to be
there yeah there's the there's a picture
of that of Mike bringing me through that
and so with the row it was super cool to
come to him again and say like hey man
like there's no blueprint for this like
there's no blueprint for this there's no
one that's done a fully human power
crossing of Drake Passage before to the
Antarctic Peninsula like there's some
ocean rowers but this is different like
how should we prepare for this and Mike
it's not like he's like well I know
everything about ocean rowing but that
same curiosity that same growth mindset
I trust his you know sort of ability to
train he's like I don't know man like
let's start thinking through this and so
in the gym I mean we did all sorts of
creative things he brought the ice back
he started putting a rowing machine on
BOSU balls like half BOSU balls
basically and I'd start rowing you know
didn't nor him a rowing motion but he'd
starts shaking it around because
basically the ocean is gonna be moving
me around so much so just the rowing
motion isn't gonna prepare me for the
lateral movements you know the the lats
the obliques you know the all the kind
of side-to-side stability stuff then he
took it one step further which is he
actually shows up at my house knocks on
my door at two o'clock in the morning I
think he had pre-arranged it with my
wife knocks on the door he's like get up
and I'm like what that's happening and
he's like we're going we're training
right now and he gets me he's got those
BOSU balls but now it's the middle of
the night so I'm sleep-deprived I'm kind
of disoriented now he's got me on the
BOSU balls and he had brought these
buckets of ice water so I'm rowing this
thing it's shaking around it's the
middle of night and he starts throwing
ice water on me and we're doing these
laps yeah Here I am
you know getting into this the yeah you
could check these out the Discovery
Channel did back this is training for
the Drake the impossible row episode 3
you could find it online Jamie's on the
Discovery Channel YouTube page YouTube
they have a whole playlist
ok yeah so there's 14 of these videos
training all the way through the whole
project discovery put them online
they're actually doing a feature-length
documentary this spring but yeah did you
do for rowing for the specific muscles
of rowing yourself did you lift weights
did you do rows did use a rowing machine
which use yeah so the rowing machine on
the BOSU balls that's like in the gym
also a lot of deadlift was really useful
and then a lot of stability stuff so
Mike would have me do certain things
like we'd have you
like a seated row or something like that
or more thongs I thought that was the
most interesting because it was going to
be disabled so the waves are usually
coming from and they change directions
but any given time they're coming
generally from one direction so you're
there leaning and really hard to your
left side you're leaning and really hard
to your right side that's a different to
the ocean rowing than just like a pure
river rowing and you know he would have
me basically like holding imagine like a
like a like a deadlift bar mm-hm and
then I'd have my eyes closed I'd be
holding it there and kind of an
isometric motion and then he would pull
the plate a light plate off one of the
sides and so I'd have to stabilize and
catch you know even my left side on my
right side so a lot of stabilization and
balance stuff and then the other piece
that was huge you know Mike you know
admittedly doesn't know a lot about
rowing specifically in terms of the
technique of rowing and the technique of
rowing is actually very specific and so
a friend of mine a guy named Chris wada
from Portland he I called him up and
he's like this champion rower collegiate
rower on rowing coach and he took me out
on the Willamette River in Portland in a
single man like rowing scull so very
different than an ocean Robo ocean
robots a lot bigger different different
waves but he taught me on the river the
actual purity of the rowing motion so a
lot of the training and the physical
aspects I'm getting stronger was with
Mike and the mindset and the ice and all
the things we did there but certainly
the stuff that we did on the route on
the river in in the Willamette with
Chris was huge for me to actually
understand the motion because I just
like you and you're like how hard could
it be just kind of push your arms you
know back and forth of it's a pretty
complicated motion it's a full body
thing it's a coordinate it's a very
coordinated thing you know you're
powering out of different things and
certainly on river rowing you're having
to you know squares called squaring the
blades and you know if you're taking the
blades out of the water and you know
turning them so they could slide across
the top and get back in and glide and
all that kind of stuff so there's a lot
there's a lot to the motion and so it
was a short period of time I didn't take
my first stroke in a rowboat until July
and in the in the in the river and then
August in the ocean robot when we came
together as a team for the first time to
Train in Scotland and then I was rowing
across the Drake in December so it was a
pretty short period of time to kind of
learn learn about rowing and get
stronger but it was a fun process to
dive into something completely new
so all from August September October
November into December digit rain and
row all the time um you know quite a lot
but there was other things going I was
writing this I was writing a book I was
writing the book in the book at the same
time you know traveling doing different
things but yeah I mean obviously the
training was a core focus but it wasn't
like I was like everyday I was always
doing his rowing 10 hours a day or
something like that there was uh you
know other things going on I imagine you
would need some pretty spectacular
endurance to do that 90 minutes on the
hour every 90 minutes yeah so you got 90
minutes on 90 minutes off I know my
strategy for doing that we just did not
burn yourselves out too much but yeah so
like I said fian you know has you know a
lot of ocean rowing experience and from
his other expeditions we kind of
collectively talked about it as a team
and he was just like okay you know this
is what the Heath felt has worked the
best for people to you know do a long
stretch get enough rest but you know
obviously maybe the first day or two you
think oh I could row for four hours at a
time or something like that and you can
get longer stretch of rest but over time
make your body really starts to wear it
down and so he kind of you know felt
that was the happy balance and it
definitely I mean I was delirious we
were all delirious and sleep-deprived
and it got weird had the hair for sure
but I think it was the best my body
actually held up pretty well and I feel
like Chanel who is yeah it was the Ohio
like the things going on in my mind the
the night time like the night shift
was really crazy so at the night the
light nights weren't super long you got
about three hours of darkness every
single night but that meant at least one
90-minute shift was complete darkness
and so I know where you're going that
that part is like I mean it's weird
enough to be out in this tiny little
boat bobbing around in the middle of the
ocean knocking back and forth but all of
a sudden it gets completely dark and
like you can see nothing and so waves
kind of come out of nowhere it's very
very disorienting I was reeling so on my
shift it was myself a guy named Jamie
and I was from Scotland and a guy named
cam Bellamy a South African guy who I
got funny story about him he's absolute
legend so there's a three of us out
there rowing on our ship and the other
shift was Andrew John and Fiona and on
our shift in the middle of the night I
don't know how it started was on the
first night so we're out there it's kind
of like an even rowing all day and then
all of a sudden now you're wet and cold
and it's dark like it's just like it's
just like this sucks like
once when you're like having your lowest
moments and we you might make fun of me
but we started singing man
we just started singing out there didn't
make funny for rolling across yeah there
you go you know we started singing like
I I think I just started belting out one
day you know I was I was actually born
on a hippie commune my mom played Bob
Marley Redemption thong throughout my
entire birth there's like you know
people watch my birth on my futon so I
started oh pirates yes they rob I sold I
to the merchant ships or just belted out
know what I mean I've my voice is
terrible but you know no it was intense
I mean weird anybody hate you I don't
know you have to ask them I guess no no
we honestly it was it was a crazy social
experiment we've got guys from four
different countries three different
continents
no one knows each other super well few
of them had done a project before in the
past so they they know each other a bit
better but in general we weren't you
know it's not like it was six guys were
like oh we've done a bunch of stuff
together we're bros if I'll hang out and
it really you know required some really
diligent kind of human dynamics to bring
it all together one of the things we
came together in Scotland in August and
we rode for the first time that's the
first time we all met each other we came
to go that's where our rowboat was we
were getting it custom-built and built
out and then then that was the one time
we saw each other in person we get on
these Skype calls and stuff and then we
got down to puntarenas which is where we
staged it out of in Chile and southern
Chile there that's kind of we got a
rowboat we imported it we're getting
everything going and those 10 days were
in preparation were some of the absolute
hardest of the entire project getting to
the start line right and you know
there's gear everywhere we're trying to
figure out how it all fits like you know
we're how we're gonna fit all this food
in here in our personal gear and there's
nowhere this we're trying to pack the
boat and like you know tensions or
elevate everyone just kind of like
nervous like the reality of what we're
about to do is setting in and you know
there was kind of some breaking points
and to credit where credit's due one of
the guys named andrew town absolute
amazing guy he's actually a management
consultant so he's like a lawyer
businessman management consultant and
he's like he's like facilitates all
these conversations in his work and he
sits us down he goes hey guys like we
need to have like a real conversation
about like teamwork and what's going on
because there's a six of us and it's
tiny little boat life on the lines we
come from different cultures different
backgrounds different things like let's
set some intentions and you know at
first I think we're all maybe a little
bit skeptical but he sits us down and we
have this conversation about like you
know let's talk let's talk real like
what are our real fears going into this
like what are our vulnerabilities what
are our weaknesses how can we trust one
another and you know we all were very
honest with one another and I think it
really set the tone for the entire thing
one of the guys as a school principal
he's got a two-year-old daughter at home
and he's like hey guys like I want to do
this like I want to be a part of the
project but like here are some of my
fears you know and for me I'm like look
like we got to have a communication we
got to be able to say to each other for
having a bad day we got to just be on
it's like hey I'm not having a good day
but it's not because like I'm a bad
person you know we got to support one
another and really having that
facilitated conversation as a team early
on before we're out in the water in the
intensity I think carried us through and
I'm so so so grateful to Andrew
facilitate that conversation because
that was a really turning point in the
group dynamics and so the Discovery
Channel was their idea for this thing no
come to you guys yeah so that the whole
discovery thing is is really cool part
of this so basically what happens beyond
Theon had the idea for it this is a
legendary you know Ocean rower and but
the component parts are pulling it all
together really complicated one of the
reasons is because the inner so say you
owned a yacht or something like that and
you're like you know what Collin I want
to take my yacht to Antarctica like
that's not really something that you can
just do there's a whole bunch of
environmental protections and laws and
things like that there's like specific
boats I have like per mating that's
called this called the i8o treaty and
it's basically what governs like tourism
and Antarctica and the reason they do
that is because of sort of environmental
concerns and Antarctica and it's a
really good thing it turns out like my
ocean rowboat is not like part of like
the full treaty of Antarctica and so the
only way to do it and be like well
within the rules and like aboveboard
within everything that's going on in
Antarctica all the environmental
protection is to have one of the i8o
certified boats there and a part of this
and so what we realized is we needed
what was called a supervising vessel not
a vessel that would you know give us
support in the middle and hang out with
us we could jump off and take a hot
shower but a boat that's basically
overseeing the totality the project and
also
it's like us being like fully permitted
throughout that and so we're like okay
like that's interesting there's gonna be
this other boat out there we got to
figure out who this is it's super
expensive so gotta raise the money to
make sure we can have that you know all
these types of things the only way it
can work we kind of got set to work on
doing that myself
my wife Jenna she builds these projects
with me Blake who works with me and a
bunch of people kind of working on kind
of details of it and we quickly realized
like wow what an amazing opportunity if
we have this other boat out there we can
film this thing and I've wanted to film
my pride some of my projects and share
them really widely before but when
you're walking across Antarctica dragon
at 375 pounds LED and the whole purpose
of the goal was to be Sol it's not like
you can have like a cameraman just like
hanging out there like shooting you you
know I mean although there's just a road
so there's just people hanging out
throwing well lol but basically that's
when we said hey like let's see if
someone will be interested in coming on
as a media partner of this and really
filming this and sharing this in a big
in a big way and so we got to talking
with discovery they got on board of it
and it was a really cool vision it was
kind of a combined vision of theirs and
ours through all my other projects I
mentioned the GPS through my last you
know Antarctica crossing and my other
previous world records before I always
carry this GPS and share it in real time
I have this nonprofit where you know
during the row there was six hundred
thousand school kids and school
curriculums we built around like ocean
and environmental learning and stuff
like that all incorporated into the kind
of daily following along with the
science and curriculum and so I always
want to share their projects in real
time and so we talked to discovery and
they're like this is super cool let's do
three different things at once here so
we invest in all this satellite
technology with iridium the Iridium
satellites and they were able to
basically allow us to do social media
during the time so if you're like
sitting at home on Christmas Day as
we're arriving in Arctica like you
watching me bouncing around on this you
know rowboat you can follow the whole
thing and then who's doing this the
other boat so I yeah there they have the
satellites on the other boat but we have
I'm shooting the social media and
content and the other boat is powered
how it's a prop it's like a normal take
a 120 foot like boat with like a proper
engine and that's nice that they were
with you yes absolutely so definitely
had that as the they they never I didn't
ever tell them to carry the food because
so the unsupported part of the project
like means the second we long
like they couldn't touch it if they
touched us in you know catastrophic it's
over if that's the end of the thing and
so my wife my wife was on board that she
runs all the projects for me in the back
Renee's like she was actually so she
crossed the Drake and this larger boat
which Bradford Drake Passage standards
is still a much smaller boat there's six
guys you know who or five guys who ran
the boat and then five guys on the
Discovery film crew but they rigged our
ocean row boat up with all these GoPros
and batteries and all this kind of stuff
so we were completely self-sufficient on
the boat itself and just had to like
switch out memory cards and stuff
ourself but what ended up happening is
there was a social media component
happening live and then what Jamie just
pulled up in the video of me training
there's these 14 episodes on Discovery
go that are online right now and they're
all like 5 to 10 minutes long that kind
of tell the story in mid form episodes
which is cool because that was coming
out concurrently so while we're out
there they're putting these pieces of
content sent out by the satellites that
people could see and then this spring a
couple months from now they're gonna
have a long-form documentary that comes
out about the entire thing and there's
definitely been some really cool footage
of ocean rowing expeditions in the past
but to have a boat out there and to be
able to shoot it from the perspective of
not on the rowboat someone's on the
robot it's weird like you've seen boats
in really big swells but because the
perspective on the rowboat it's kind of
moving with it you can't kind of twelve
how big it is but I think there's a
video of like actually the last video
maybe I post on my Instagram where you
can see the boat are my about just
completely disappearing going up and
down and completely disappearing in the
waves and they're able to shoot back and
get drone footage and all this sort of
stuff so the the feature-length
documentaries to come out in a couple
months will be really cool and discovery
that's awesome it's just a crazy thing
that you've done and it begs the
question when do you do crazy things
like does this change you as a person
does like you walk across an articles
one rowing across the Drake stretch as
it was great passage is another like is
this changing you as a person like what
are these because these are experiences
wait if you told someone hey you're
gonna sleep 90 minutes out of at a clip
and then you're gonna row for 90 minutes
and you're gonna poop into a bucket and
you're gonna sleep like a sardine with a
bunch of other dudes on this boat you're
not gonna sleep much
you're probably gonna hallucinate
sometimes you're gonna row in the dark
I think songs yeah you'll get through it
though couple weeks later you'll be done
yeah like these these are weird things
that you're doing that's sort of
changing your personal life experiences
are so much more extreme than the
average person's yeah a hundred percent
I mean you know one of my reasons for
doing this for sure is to test the
limits of my own potential and grow I'm
not doing them just to like so that I
can be the exact same person on the
other side of a Nordic car the other
side of Drake Passage it's to take that
learning and you know I've been asked a
question I guess before but my answer or
the way that I kind of think about it is
I've started to think about life like
the I mean how I've started think about
life and the totality of life experience
between like say a numerical one and ten
like one being the worst day of your
life and ten being the best day of your
life and you know one might be you know
a day that if a family member passes
away or one might be being wet and cold
and freezing in an ocean row boats you
know spooning with this other guy and
you know been shit in a bucket and being
exhausted and tired you know like just
like rough moments in your life right
and ten is this hedonistic joy the most
pleasure filled day ever just happy
joyful maybe you've succeeded in
something you've accomplished like
always kind of stuff and as I've kind of
looked around at the world people say
what are you afraid of you must not be
afraid of being alone or you must not be
afraid of you know these hard challenges
or stuff like that I'm like mom maybe
not but what I'm really afraid of is
actually living a life range bound
between four and six I think too often
people you know the typical life
experience unfortunately because we have
some creature comforts particularly in
the Western world where you know you can
live a life and just stuck between four
and six so maybe the happiest day of
your year your week it's like the
Superbowl and your team wins a Superbowl
and you crush a couple beers with your
buddy and you high-five me like oh that
was awesome like that was cool but it's
not ten I mean it's a six and then like
maybe the worst day of your week it's
like a Monday and your boss yells at you
or something like that and you're just
like you're like oh man like that's kind
of bummer but you know I don't really
give a shit about my job anyway so like
I'm not really that bummed about it just
like is I'm just kind of like in this
like life of like quiet desperation in
the middle and I think a lot of that has
to do with because we're hedging or
we're afraid of the ones we're just like
I don't want to experience of one I
don't want to experience discomfort I
don't want to experience
like anything to do that but what I've
realized I think of it like kind of a
pendulum like swinging the totality of
life experience like to get to the tens
you also need to embrace the ones like
the totality of life in the experience
it's not I'm not experiencing these high
highs or these hedonistic joys are these
beautiful flow States or things like
that you know in spite of the ones in
spite of the challenge but it's because
of them yeah
by pulling my sled you know 53 days on
my 53rd day of pulling my sled across
Antarctica I get there my hips are
poking out my ribs are sticking out I'm
exhausted
I can barely pick my duffel bag up to
put it my sled my body's completely
compromised I'm exhausted
but then I tap into the deepest flow
state of my entire life
I find this place in my mind in my body
in my soul and you know I pushed 32
hours without stopping to the finish
line and I wouldn't have gotten there
how do I not push myself had I not you
know gone through this difficulty you
know I like to say that you know pain is
mandatory these challenges are painful
straight-up pain is mandatory make no
mistake about this obvious things I'm
doing are painful they're hard whatever
but the suffering part is optional yeah
you know you don't have to be in these
moments so when I drink oh my god this
is horrible I'm in this and why did I
get myself out there's a terrible above
above a buttonhook down this path you're
like I'm doing this because when I step
outside of my comfort zone I grow and as
I grow I can share that with other
people and hopefully have that ripple
effect of positivity and inspiration
that's lasting in the world for others
as well yeah you mentioned one of my
favorite quotes over the Thoreau quote
most men live lives of quiet desperation
yeah that's a great fucking quote and so
damn true I think you're right I think
you really need very difficult things in
your life in order to appreciate real
comfort and relaxation absolutely I
don't think you hit it if you just if
your whole life is just soft cushions
and everything's made out of a lure and
people are feeding you grapes I think
you live like an asshole yeah I think
you know we don't like that because no
one really suffering is hard it's hard
it feels uncomfortable but you don't
realize that unless you suffer you don't
appreciate calm you don't appreciate
peace I think there's just far too many
people out there seeking comfort I agree
with that
I think that it's funny because people
are going towards that they're hedging
against discomfort like okay well how to
make this as comfortable as possible and
then they sit there and they're like why
am i unsatisfied why am I not happy but
it's like because you're hedging against
discomfort because you're trying to make
like you said it's poor education really
people are not educated on what it takes
in order to be fulfilled in life the
idea is that material possessions or
some modicum of success is the goal it's
not you know what difficult tasks is
what make you make you do something
that's hard to do do something that's
interesting do something that's
complicated and intricate do something
that requires you to stretch your
boundaries absolutely that's what I'm
asking you because you're doing you're
stretching your boundaries and there's
some weird life you know death defying
sort of thing yeah you've done two of
these so far like what is next you gonna
do ultra marathons you're gonna try to
climb mountains like what are you gonna
do so know you got something going on
IIIi did a big mountaineering project
before any of this for these last two
projects I did something called the
explorers Grand Slam so I climbed the
tallest mountain each of the seven
continents I went to the North and South
Pole for the last degree of latitude
faster than anyone's done that so as a
hundred and thirty nine days back in
2016 so Everest Denali Kilimanjaro
excetera back to back the next actual
physical project that I have it's not
you know some you know world
record-breaking thing or anything but my
wife so one of the things that we do we
have this nonprofit as I mentioned and
loved speaking the young people kind of
opening the mind to the outdoors and
being stewards of the land and really
inspiring young people to think about
you know doing hard things and testing
themselves and doesn't have to be in the
outdoors at all it could be anything
music art culture whatever it is but to
to aim high in their life and one
question we started asking young people
was this question which is what's your
efforts you know it's a really obvious
metaphor for kids it's like you know
what's your big goal you know what is
your Everest and kids are amazing in a
gymnasium I get you know kids raised
their hand going you know my uppers to
be the first person my family to
graduate from college or you know
whatever amazing things kids you know
dream of and help facilitate them
towards those goals but about a year ago
now my wife who's not you know he didn't
grow up you know climbing mountains
didn't grow up as an avid athlete or
anything she's been wildly supportive of
the work we've done a lot of the book is
really about our loves to
and building these projects together but
she looks at me and she goes Colin my
mountain Everest is now to climb Mount
Everest and so we are going back in
April I've climbed Mount Everest once
before from the Nepalese side but we're
going to go back and climb Everest we'll
be there in April May of this year so in
a couple of months to climb Mount
Everest from the north side and really
for me the that's to be a support
support a facilitator of her goal so the
next thing I'm doing kind of in the
athletic or outdoor space is actually to
support Jenna in climbing we don't
literally hurt her Mount Everest being
Mount Everest
and it's really cool to see her you know
just someone so close to me commit to a
goal it's an audacious goal for her for
her back I mean she's amazing she's
strong she's fit she's trained she's
ready but like just like six months ago
I'd never rode a boat you know a year
ago yeah she's climbed some big
mountains but to say hey I wanna climb
Mount Everest was a massive goal for I
think you're gonna do stuff together
like do some death-defying thing
together you know I think we'll see I
think for her this this I don't want say
it's one and done but I'm sure that you
know I don't think she has the huge
desire to keep doing these types of
thing I think the next journey for both
of us probably after that is a
Parenthood having kids yeah that's
that's a whole other journey
Everest seems very commercialized now
right I watched some of the footage from
the pictures and line of people trying
to summit it's yeah it's a weird thing
now yes so that's from the south side
that's the side that icon in 2016 from
Nepal that was that photograph was taken
from that what a wild and bizarre thing
that was say the least
yeah so on the north side there's less
crowds what we were climbing from but
also that day I mean look that I don't
have the answer to the problem that
certainly was a problematic thing that
happened up there it's kind of a weird
perfect storm a little bit where it was
actually really stormy for a while and
then people got delayed and the ropes
are delayed getting in and also there's
one good day and everyone goes at the
same time so again I don't know what the
solution is but everyone going up at the
same time on the same day on one day in
May it's obviously clearly based on that
picture like I'm not better
yeah people did die that day I don't
know the exact count but people did die
that day because they got no stuck out
there and couldn't move one way or
another
yeah when I was climbing in 2016 it was
actually a somewhat crowded day nothing
like that photo but it was a more
crowded day and I was climbing with a
Sherpa by the name of pasang bhote an
incredibly strong guy when we submitted
together was his seventh time on the
summit just an absolute legend and him
and I talked about it and we were behind
all these people and we actually made
the decision you know we talked he said
you know we got away that kind of pros
and cons here if we stay behind people
you're moving as slow as the slowest
person in this line and it's just like
you've seen those photos it's just not a
great situation it's cold it you can get
frostbite and all that kind of stuff and
so we actually made the choice to unclip
from the ropes the fix rope there on the
first half of the summit day all the way
up to a section called the balcony we
actually climbed unroped but beside the
people because we actually made the call
that we said you know actually climbing
unroped of this section felt safer you
know risking a slip or a bad fall with
no ropes felt safer than being stuck
behind some other people and then
eventually it did get to stay pand to
falling off yeah that's the photo that
NIMS died took that's a crazy I never
saw anything like that and that's I mean
that's definitely the exception not the
rule on that but the fact that exists is
just horrible I mean there's a horrible
I mean there's nothing good to say about
that other than it's just it's tragic
for sure so you know I think that again
I don't know what the solution is I'm
proud of Jenna for setting this goal and
you know I think that people should you
know set that goal I think people if
they with thoughts they want to do great
if they want to climb mountains if they
want to do anything I don't want to stop
people from doing that but certainly a
situation like that where people are
stuck on ropes and dying in a situation
where that shouldn't happen like that is
terrible things so this book the
impossible first it's out now people can
go get it right yeah it's out now came
out a month ago and you write a book
about your rowboat experience as well do
you think I should why not fuck it the
book it's also an audio book so if you
don't like reading and you like
listening instead yeah the audio book I
narrated it myself
yes yeah I narrowed it myself it's out
it came out a month ago just at the New
York Times bestsellers list so yeah yeah
well congratulations
don't die come back again next time we
do something else crazy yeah you got it
man they talked about good yeah
Jamie looked over at me like something's
going so the impossible first it's out
right now go get it folks thanks Colin
yes appreciate it thanks very much yeah
thank you
[Music]